---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-06T04:41:05.038Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-06T04:40:23.860Z'
title: ''
author: []
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-01-0ad68835-2d50-4f17-8afc-1ba80256e722.md
published: true
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
url: 0ad68835-2d50-4f17-8afc-1ba80256e722/index.html
_type: Article

---
This is the devblog for Project GLAIVE. A warning in advance: it's currently controlled by robots. Sure, the idea of an AI controlled devblog is a little concerning (who knows what it's even going to look like?) but I figure why not? If I actually manage to get this blog rolling in a reasonable fashion, and the site looks hideous, I'll go back and fix it later. Anyway, about the game.

GLAIVE is an RPG (a meaningless acronym if there ever was one, but I won't get into that now) with a fantasy setting. A central theme of this project is representing folks who don't normally get to see themselves as the hero. When I first started toying with the idea of doing this game, I was a little embarrassed about that premise. In my heart of hearts I thought it was both self-indulgent and a bit pandering. Since then, I've come to realize how important representation really is. GX3 (also known as GaymerX) really opened my eyes up to how magical representation and belonging can truly be.

I'm the only developer on this project, and that sucks. I'm a collaborator by nature, a bonafide extrovert. But I know if I don't work on this game myself, it won't get done. And if I want to interest other potential team members, I have to put in the work before I have any right to ask for a hand. So I've been putting away in the darkness of privacy, furtively showing crude prototypes to friends. I'm doing the work, largely spurred by the fear of this game never seeing daylight.

Putting in the actual effort isn't so bad, oftentimes it's even fun. But honestly, the hardest thing so far has been the lack of accountability. I could let this project slide six months and no-one aside from my own conscience would care. I recently found a random blog on the interwebs (I'll post the link later) that cited accountability as a chief concern for solo dev projects. It offered some examples of ways to increase extrinsic motivation, a few of which I've heard of or considered before. (Trello board, anyone?) No individual tip was inspiring, but in aggregate they generated an epiphany: most projects with really small teams that end up successful have SOME kind of presence outside the mind of the creator. Dev blogs, a Twitter account, a Facebook page. 

I've always had a fear of sharing my personal ideas, the ones I really give a shit about. But if I'm serious about this project, if I really want it to see the light of day, that means I'm going to have to start sharing at some point. Might as well be now.